Feat/claude images mcp (#3029)
huggingface/blog: generate-images-with-claude-and-mcp.md

Reviewer: I'd maybe name the file `claude-and-mcp.md`

---
title: "Generate Images with Claude and Hugging Face" 
thumbnail: /blog/assets/generate-images-with-claude-and-mcp/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: evalstate
---

# Create Images with Claude and Hugging Face

> [!TIP]
> **TL;DR:** Its easier than ever to generate detailed pictures with state-of-the-art AI models - by connecting Claude to Hugging Face Spaces. This article describes how and why, and introduces recently launched models which excel at producing natural images and including text. 

## Introduction

Recent advances in image generation models have improved their ability to produce realistic outputs and incorporate high quality text. It's easier than ever to use these models by connecting them directly to Claude. 

The advantages of generating pictures using this way are:
 - The AI can assist in building detailed prompts that may improve the output quality of generated images. 

>  - The AI can "see" the generated images, then help iterate on designs and techniques to get perfect results.

Reviewer: Perhaps we can introduce another advantage: we can replace the backend model whenever we want or a better model is released. Instead of visiting new UIs as models come out, or learning the nuances to prompt them with code, we can keep using the same queries once the system is set up.

To get started, create a free [Hugging Face account](https://huggingface.co/join), then connect Claude from its "Search and tools" menu in the chat input box. The video below shows the exact steps needed:

<figure class="image flex flex-col items-center text-center m-0 w-full">
    <video
       alt="claude-auth-flow.mp4"
       autoplay loop autobuffer muted playsinline
     >
     <source src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/claude-images-mcp/claude-auth-flow.mp4" type="video/mp4">
   </video>

>   <figcaption>Conneting Claude to Hugging Face</figcaption>   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <figcaption>Connecting Claude to Hugging Face</figcaption>   
```

 </figure>

> Behind the scenes Claude is now set up to use tools from the [Hugging Face MCP Server](https://huggingface.co/mcp?login), seamlessly extending it's capabilities. This includes the latest AI Applications running on our innovative [ZeroGPU](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/spaces-zerogpu) powered Spaces - providing free access to large, powerful models that are would normally be expensive to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Behind the scenes, Claude is now set up to use tools from the [Hugging Face MCP Server](https://huggingface.co/mcp), seamlessly extending its capabilities. This includes the latest AI Applications running on our innovative [ZeroGPU](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/spaces-zerogpu) powered Spaces - providing free access to large, powerful models that would normally be expensive to use.
```

Perhaps we could tone down "free" a bit saying that users have free credits to use ZeroGPU (and later on in the post we could recommend to upgrade to Pro to get more credits).

Reviewer: Did you push it? I'm not sure I'm seeing the latest revisions.

> Confirm that that the Hugging Face tools are available from the "Search and tools" menu... and now we are ready to try some of the latest models.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After Claude has been connected with Hugging Face, we'll show how to configure image generation tools that Claude can use.
```

## Natural Images with Flux.1 Krea Dev

> [FLUX.1 Krea [dev]](https://huggingface.co/black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-Krea-dev) aims to eliminate the telltale "AI look" that often plague generated images - for example plastic skin, oversaturated colors, or overly smooth textures. If you want images that look like they were shot by a professional photographer rather than generated by a computer, Krea delivers the realistic textures, natural lighting, and authentic aesthetics that other AI models struggle with. You can read more about how they did this [on their blog](https://www.krea.ai/blog/flux-krea-open-source-release).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[FLUX.1 Krea [dev]](https://huggingface.co/black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-Krea-dev) aims to eliminate the telltale "AI look" that often plagues generated images - for example plastic skin, oversaturated colors, or overly smooth textures. If you want images that look like they were shot by a professional photographer rather than generated by a computer, Krea delivers the realistic textures, natural lighting, and authentic aesthetics that other AI models struggle with. You can read more about how they did this [on their blog](https://www.krea.ai/blog/flux-krea-open-source-release).
```

<figure class="image text-center">
  <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/claude-images-mcp/bfl_krea_image_wide.avif" alt="Examples from Krea">
  <figcaption>Examples from the Krea Image Generator</figcaption>
</figure>

> To try **Krea**, go to [`huggingface.co/mcp/settings`](https://huggingface.co/settings/mcp) and add `evalstate/flux1-krea` to your "Spaces Tools". This will add a tool named  something similar to "`flux1_krea_dev_infer`" to Claude. This enables Claude to generate beautiful, realistic looking images. Note the precise name may vary slightly depending on your configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use **Krea** with Claude, go to [`huggingface.co/mcp/settings`](https://huggingface.co/settings/mcp) and add `evalstate/FLUX.1-Krea-dev` to your "Spaces Tools". That's all you need to enable Claude to generate beautiful, realistic looking images.
```

Updated the name of the space, I couldn't find `evalstate/flux1-krea`. Also, the name of the tool in Claude is just a detail imo.

<figure class="image flex flex-col items-center text-center m-0 w-full">
    <video
       alt="adding-mcp-space.mp4"
       autoplay loop autobuffer muted playsinline
     >

>      <source src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/claude-images-mcp/adding-mcp-space.mp4" type="video/mp4">

Reviewer: This video shows how to add Qwen, not Krea (even if Krea is a tool already added to the user's config)

   </video>
  <figcaption>Adding a Space in <a href='https://huggingface.co/settings/mcp'>MCP Settings</a></figcaption>   
 </figure>

You can then try a prompt in Claude like: 

> "Use Krea to create an image of a Vibrant garden with victorian house".

To begin generating pictures.

## Qwen Image

[Qwen-Image](https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen-Image) is a powerful AI image generator that excels at creating images with accurate text rendering, making it ideal for designing posters, signs, infographics, and marketing materials where text quality matters. Read more about the Qwen-Image model from their [blog post](https://qwenlm.github.io/blog/qwen-image/).

<figure class="image text-center">
  <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/claude-images-mcp/qwen_sample.jpg" alt="Examples from Qwen">
  <figcaption>Examples from the Qwen-Image Generator</figcaption>
</figure>

> To use **Qwen-Image** add `evalstate/qwen-image` from your [MCP Servers setting](https://huggingface.co/settings/mcp) page, then check it is enabled in Claude to start using it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use **Qwen-Image** add `evalstate/Qwen-Image` from your [MCP Servers setting](https://huggingface.co/settings/mcp) page, then check it is enabled in Claude to start using it.
```

> You can even keep both enabled and ask Claude to use both and compare results for similar concepts - for example: "Use Krea and Qwen to generate a street scene with 'Hugging Face' graffiti sprayed on the wall".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can even keep both Krea and Qwen-Image enabled and ask Claude to use both so you can compare results. For example: "Use Krea and Qwen to generate a street scene with 'Hugging Face' graffiti sprayed on the wall".
```

<figure class="image text-center">
  <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/claude-images-mcp/krea_hf_example.webp" alt="Hugging Face Graffiti Street Scene">

>   <figcaption>Hugging Face Graffiti Street Scene</figcaption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <figcaption>Hugging Face Graffiti Street Scene Generated with Krea</figcaption>
```

(would be cool to see results from both side by side, as introduced in the text)

</figure>

## Conclusion

> Connecting Claude to Hugging Face Spaces makes using state-of-the-art models on the day of release as easy as clicking a button. Explore the AI App Directory at [https://huggingface.co/spaces](https://huggingface.co/spaces) and build amazing things with [Video Generation](https://huggingface.co/spaces/evalstate/ltx-video-distilled), [Text Generation](https://huggingface.co/spaces/amd/gpt-oss-120b-chatbot), [Image Editing](https://huggingface.co/spaces/evalstate/FLUX.1-Kontext-Dev) and many thousands more. Let us know what you find and create in the comments below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connecting Claude to Hugging Face Spaces makes using state-of-the-art models as easy as clicking a button, even the day new models are released. Explore the AI App Directory at [https://huggingface.co/spaces](https://huggingface.co/spaces) and build amazing projects with [Video Generation](https://huggingface.co/spaces/evalstate/ltx-video-distilled), [Text Generation](https://huggingface.co/spaces/amd/gpt-oss-120b-chatbot), [Image Editing](https://huggingface.co/spaces/evalstate/FLUX.1-Kontext-Dev) and many thousands more. Let us know what you find and create in the comments below!
```

Is the AMD gpt-oss space compatible with MCP?

> 
> With a Hugging Face account, it's simple to add new tools to Claude and use them straight away.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
